Start documenting coding style (#1321)
FoundationDB/fdb-record-layer: docs/Coding_Style.md

# FoundationDB Record Layer Coding Style

This document is very much a work in progress, but the intention is to detail rules

> both our code formatting style rules, as well as general paradigms that we follow

Reviewer: > both our code formatting style rules

Is this true? It seems like our code formatting should (as much as possible) be in the automatic code styling rules, though maybe that's not always possible. It seems like this document is more about practices for general paradigms which are harder to enforce automatically (though maybe not impossible).

Author: You are correct, I switched it to a "Best Practices" slant.

* The logging properties should provide as much detail as possible to diagnose the source of the error

For example:

```
throw new RecordCoreException("Found corrupt record: " + record.getPrimarykey());
```

should be written as:

```
throw new RecordCoreException("Found corrupt record")
    .withLogInfo(LogMessageKeys.PRIMARY_KEY, record.getPrimaryKey());
```

However, at scale, where you may have a system managing dozens or thousands of
record stores, just know the primary key of a record probably isn't sufficient
to track down the problem, so care should be taken to include as much context as
possible around the issue, such as:

```
throw new RecordCoreException("Found corrupt record").withLogInfo(
    LogMessageKeys.SUBSPACE, store.getRecordSubspace(),
    LogMessageKeys.PRIMARY_KEY, record.getPrimaryKey(),
    LogMessageKeys.RECORD_TYPE, record.getRecordType());
```

By structuring our exceptions this way, we get a number of nice benefits:

* We can easily search our logs for all occurrances of a given exception, 
  such as finding how often "Found corrupt record" occurs
* For a given exception, we can filter or group on the logging properties,

>   such as counting the number of correupt records by record type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  such as counting the number of corrupt records by record type
```

* At a broader scale, without having variables polluting the text of the
  exception, we can trivially do things like determine which exception
  happens most frequently in the system, by performing a count grouped by
  the exception title. 

## Logging

Logging in record layer follows a similar paradigm to that described in 
**Exception structure**, above.  Namely:

* The value logged should always be a `KeyValueLogMessage`
* The text of `KeyValueLogMessage` must always be a static string, with no variables
* Logging properties should be added to give context to the error (where 
  variables would have been used)
* The logging properties should provide as much detail as possible to diagnose the 
  source of the error

For example, instead of logging:

```
LOGGER.info("Unable to open file: " + filename);
```

you should instead log:

```
LOGGER.info(KeyValueLogMessage.of("Unable to open file",
    LogMessageKeys.FILENAME, filename));
```

## Futures

### `join()` or `get()` in production code

> Production code (i.e. code that aren't tests), should never call `CompletableFuture.join()` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Production code (i.e., code that isn't test code), should never call `CompletableFuture.join()` 
```

> or `CompletableFuture.get()`, but instead should call `FDBRecordContext.asyncToSync()` or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or `CompletableFuture.get()`, but instead it should call `FDBRecordContext.asyncToSync()` or
```

`FDBDatabase.asyncToSync()`.  The `asyncToSync()` method provides a number of important
benefits:

> * It establishes a client-configurable configurable time limit on how long we are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It establishes a client-configurable time limit on how long we are 
```

  willing to wait for the operation to complete
* It automatically defines a wait timer that will be included in the `FDBStoreTimer`
  to track the time spent waiting on the event
* It takes care of error handling and wrapping to promote thrown exceptions to the 
  appropriate `RecordCoreException`
* It has the ability to detect if `asyncToSync()` is being called from within a 
  completing future (see **Blocking in asyncronous code**, below)

### Blocking in asynchronous code

The methods `join()`, `get()`, `asyncToSync()` or any method that is known to block 

> (such as syncronous I/O methods), just never be called from within a completable 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(such as syncronous I/O methods) should never be called from within a completable 
```

future.

The thread pool `Executor` has a limited number of threads that are used to invoke 

> the lambda in the `CompletableFuture` when it completes, so if that completable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the lambda in the `CompletableFuture` when it completes, so if that future
```

makes a blocking call, it has permenantly consumed the `Executor` thread until 
the completion of that operation. In the case where the blocking call is waiting

> for another future to complete (e.g. `asyncToSync()`, `join()` or `get()`) you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for another future to complete (e.g., `asyncToSync()`, `join()`, or `get()`), you
```

I suppose the Oxford comma is a bit of a style thing. Maybe we need a comma style document explaining our stance on it 🙃

can end up in a situation where the thread pool is entirely consumed with futures

> blocking for completions, and no threads are available to complete those requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blocking for completions, and no threads are available to complete those requests,
```

and the entire system deadlocks. 

> In the Record Layer unit tests (any test extending `FDBTestBase`, the `asyncToSync()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Record Layer unit tests (any test extending `FDBTestBase`), the `asyncToSync()`
```

call will automatically attempt to detect situations in which it finds itself being

> invoked from within a `CompletableFuture` completion, and throw an exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
invoked from within a `CompletableFuture` completion and throw an exception.
```

### `.thenApplyAsync` and `.thenComposeAsync`

In most situations, you do not want to use these methods, but should use `thenApply()` 

> or `thenCompose()`. The `CompletableFuture. *Async()` create and enqueue a new future 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or `thenCompose()`. The `CompletableFuture.*Async()` methods create and enqueue a new future 
```

> that will execute the code in the lambda, rather than executing the code in the lambda 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that will execute the code in the lambda in a separate thread, rather than executing the code in the lambda 
```

> immediately upon completion of this future completes. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
immediately upon completion of this future. For example:
```

```
fetchSomeNumber().thenApplyAsync(number -> number * 10);
```

> will create an entirely new future that is enqueued on the `Executor` thread, simply to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
will create an entirely new future that is enqueued on a separate thread, simply to 
```

The reason I suggest being a little more vague about what thread the task is going to be scheduled on is because this call doesn't actually specify an executor. We could point out that it schedules the task on the common fork join pool, but I think we don't want to here, because I think the point you're trying to make is something like:

1. Prefer `.thenApply` over `.thenApplyAsync` (etc) in general to avoid thread hopping
2. Always use `.thenApplyAsync` with an executor instead of `.thenApplyAsync` without an executor (etc) to avoid scheduling work on the common thread pool

Which are two separate (but important) points.

do the multiplication of the number. Whereas:

```
fetchSomeNumber().thenApply(number -> number * 10);
```

Will do the calculation immediately, as soon as `number` becomes available.  So the 
former form is FAR more expensive, for very little gain.  The main use of the `*Async()` 

> methods are cases where the lambda needs to do something relatively expensive (e.g. factor 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods are cases where the lambda needs to do something relatively expensive (e.g., factor 
```

> the number) and you don't want to block the current future chain while it happens. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the number), and you don't want to block the current future chain while it happens. 
```

Further, in the cases where you *do* need to use the `*Async()` methods, be sure you 
pass it an `Executor`, like:

```
fetchSomeNumber().thenApplyAsync(number -> number * 10, context.getExecutor());
```

> otherwise it is executed in the global thread pool, rather than the Record Layer 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Otherwise it is executed in the global thread pool, rather than the Record Layer 
```

> thread pool 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
thread pool.
```
